>>> SHE’S LOOKING AT HERSELF ON
>>> SHE’S LOOKING AT HERSELF ON TELEVISION RIGHT NOW.
TELEVISION RIGHT NOW. HOW ARE YOU FEELING?
HOW ARE YOU FEELING? CAN YOU PUT IT INTO WORDS?
CAN YOU PUT IT INTO WORDS? >> NOPE.
>> NOPE. >> I LOVE THAT ANSWER.
>> I LOVE THAT ANSWER. THAT WAS OUR NEXT GUEST LAST
THAT WAS OUR NEXT GUEST LAST NIGHT AFTER HER BIG ELECTION
NIGHT AFTER HER BIG ELECTION VICTORY IN NEW YORK’S 14th
VICTORY IN NEW YORK’S 14th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT.
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT. JOINING US HERE ON SET,
JOINING US HERE ON SET, ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ.
ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ. ALSO AT THE TABLE, NATIONAL
ALSO AT THE TABLE, NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT FOR NBC
POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT FOR NBC NEWS AND MSNBC, STEVE KORNACKI.
NEWS AND MSNBC, STEVE KORNACKI. HE IS THE AUTHOR OF THE
HE IS THE AUTHOR OF THE FORTHCOMING BOOK, "THE RED AND
FORTHCOMING BOOK, "THE RED AND THE BLUE, THE 1990s AND THE
THE BLUE, THE 1990s AND THE BIRTH OF POLITICAL TRIBALISM."
BIRTH OF POLITICAL TRIBALISM." IT IS REALLY, REALLY GOOD TO
IT IS REALLY, REALLY GOOD TO HAVE YOU BOTH ONBOARD.
HAVE YOU BOTH ONBOARD. CONGRATULATIONS.
CONGRATULATIONS. >> THANK YOU!
>> THANK YOU! THANK YOU SO, SO MUCH.
THANK YOU SO, SO MUCH. >> HAVE YOU HAD A CHANCE TO TAKE
>> HAVE YOU HAD A CHANCE TO TAKE IT ALL IN AND HOW ARE YOU
IT ALL IN AND HOW ARE YOU FEELING?
FEELING? >> YOU KNOW?
>> YOU KNOW? IT FEELS GREAT.
IT FEELS GREAT. IT FELT GREAT EVEN BEFORE THE
IT FELT GREAT EVEN BEFORE THE RESULTS CAME IN, WALKING AROUND
RESULTS CAME IN, WALKING AROUND THE COMMUNITY SEEING HOW MANY
THE COMMUNITY SEEING HOW MANY PEOPLE WERE EXCITED TO VOTE
PEOPLE WERE EXCITED TO VOTE YESTERDAY.
YESTERDAY. IT WAS INCREDIBLE.
IT WAS INCREDIBLE. I THINK WE’RE KIND OF STILL
I THINK WE’RE KIND OF STILL PROCESSING WITH THE REST OF THE
PROCESSING WITH THE REST OF THE NATION RIGHT NOW.
NATION RIGHT NOW. >> I BET.
>> I BET. SO WHAT WAS YOUR CAMPAIGN
SO WHAT WAS YOUR CAMPAIGN FOCUSED ON?
FOCUSED ON? WHAT DO YOU THINK REALLY TURNED
WHAT DO YOU THINK REALLY TURNED OUT THE VOTE AND THEY DID TURN
OUT THE VOTE AND THEY DID TURN OUT?
OUT? >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. I MEAN OUR CAMPAIGN WAS FOCUSED
I MEAN OUR CAMPAIGN WAS FOCUSED ON JUST A LASER FOCUSED MESSAGE
ON JUST A LASER FOCUSED MESSAGE OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND RACIAL
OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND RACIAL DIGNITY FOR WORKING CLASS
DIGNITY FOR WORKING CLASS AMERICANS, ESPECIALLY THOSE IN
AMERICANS, ESPECIALLY THOSE IN QUEENS AND THE BRONX.
QUEENS AND THE BRONX. WE’RE VERY CLEAR ABOUT OUR
WE’RE VERY CLEAR ABOUT OUR MESSAGE, VERY CLEAR ABOUT OUR
MESSAGE, VERY CLEAR ABOUT OUR PRIORITIES AND VERY CLEAR ABOUT
PRIORITIES AND VERY CLEAR ABOUT THE FACT THAT EVEN IF YOU’VE
THE FACT THAT EVEN IF YOU’VE NEVER VOTED BEFORE, WE ARE
NEVER VOTED BEFORE, WE ARE TALKING TO YOU.
TALKING TO YOU. >> OKAY.
>> OKAY. SO THAT’S THE CLEAREST MESSAGE
SO THAT’S THE CLEAREST MESSAGE I’VE HEARD FROM A DEMOCRAT IN A
I’VE HEARD FROM A DEMOCRAT IN A LONG TIME.
LONG TIME. JOE, JUMP IN.
JOE, JUMP IN. ANY ADVICE?
ANY ADVICE? YOU RAN FOR CONGRESS.
YOU RAN FOR CONGRESS. >> WELL, I CAN’T GIVE ANY
>> WELL, I CAN’T GIVE ANY ADVICE.
ADVICE. I THINK SHE SHOULD BE GIVING
I THINK SHE SHOULD BE GIVING ADVICE.
ADVICE. YOU KNOW, I ALWAYS -- PEOPLE
YOU KNOW, I ALWAYS -- PEOPLE WOULD ALWAYS COME TO ME AND ASK
WOULD ALWAYS COME TO ME AND ASK HOW I WON WHEN I WASN’T SUPPOSED
HOW I WON WHEN I WASN’T SUPPOSED TO WIN.
TO WIN. I’M JUST CURIOUS, I MEAN MY
I’M JUST CURIOUS, I MEAN MY ANSWER ALWAYS WAS HARD WORK.
ANSWER ALWAYS WAS HARD WORK. I WOULD GUESS THAT’S PROBABLY
I WOULD GUESS THAT’S PROBABLY YOUR ANSWER, AS WELL?
YOUR ANSWER, AS WELL? THAT IT WAS KNOCKING ON DOORS,
THAT IT WAS KNOCKING ON DOORS, WALKING THE DISTRICT, DOING ALL
WALKING THE DISTRICT, DOING ALL THE LITTLE THINGS OVER TIME THAT
THE LITTLE THINGS OVER TIME THAT ADDED UP.
ADDED UP. RIGHT?
RIGHT? >> IS THAT WHAT IT TOOK?
>> IS THAT WHAT IT TOOK? HE’S ASK SOMETHING YOU.
HE’S ASK SOMETHING YOU. WAS IT HARD WORK OR WHAT WAS IT
WAS IT HARD WORK OR WHAT WAS IT THAT MADE THE DIFFERENCE?
THAT MADE THE DIFFERENCE? >> YOU KNOW, IT REALLY DID TAKE
>> YOU KNOW, IT REALLY DID TAKE HARD WORK.
HARD WORK. I STARTED THIS RACE NINE, TEN
I STARTED THIS RACE NINE, TEN MONTHS AGO.
MONTHS AGO. I WAS WORKING IN EDUCATION AND I
I WAS WORKING IN EDUCATION AND I WAS WORKING IN A RESTAURANT AND
WAS WORKING IN A RESTAURANT AND I STARTED THIS RACE OUT OF A
I STARTED THIS RACE OUT OF A PAPER BAG.
PAPER BAG. YOU KNOW?
YOU KNOW? I HAD FLYERS AND CLIPBOARDS.
I HAD FLYERS AND CLIPBOARDS. IT REALLY WAS JUST NON-STOP
IT REALLY WAS JUST NON-STOP KNOCKING DOORS.
KNOCKING DOORS. >> WHY?
>> WHY? WHY DID YOU RUN?
WHY DID YOU RUN? >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> WELL, I THINK THE BIG THING
>> WELL, I THINK THE BIG THING IS JUST THAT I KNEW IN OUR
IS JUST THAT I KNEW IN OUR COMMUNITY WE NEEDED A VERY CLEAR
COMMUNITY WE NEEDED A VERY CLEAR VOICE.
VOICE. I THINK WE DESERVE
I THINK WE DESERVE REPRESENTATION THAT REJECTED
REPRESENTATION THAT REJECTED LOBBYIST FUNDS AND PUT OUR
LOBBYIST FUNDS AND PUT OUR VOTERS AND OUR COMMUNITY FIRST.
VOTERS AND OUR COMMUNITY FIRST. I FELT LIKE WE COULD REALLY
I FELT LIKE WE COULD REALLY DELIVER A MESSAGE FOR THE BRONX,
DELIVER A MESSAGE FOR THE BRONX, FOR QUEENS, AND FOR THE WORKING
FOR QUEENS, AND FOR THE WORKING CLASS PEOPLE OF THE UNITED
CLASS PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
STATES. I FELT LIKE OUR PARTY COULD BE
I FELT LIKE OUR PARTY COULD BE BETTER.
BETTER. OUR MESSAGE COULD BE BETTER.
OUR MESSAGE COULD BE BETTER. AND THAT WE COULD BE BETTER AS A
AND THAT WE COULD BE BETTER AS A COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. >> AS I FOLLOWED YOUR CAMPAIGN,
>> AS I FOLLOWED YOUR CAMPAIGN, ALEXANDRIA, AND YOU CORRECT ME
ALEXANDRIA, AND YOU CORRECT ME IF I’M WRONG, I DIDN’T SEE YOU
IF I’M WRONG, I DIDN’T SEE YOU DIRECTLY AT EVERY OPPORTUNITY
DIRECTLY AT EVERY OPPORTUNITY TAKING ON DONALD TRUMP BY NAME
TAKING ON DONALD TRUMP BY NAME HIMSELF.
HIMSELF. YOU SORT OF IMPLICITLY TOOK HIM
YOU SORT OF IMPLICITLY TOOK HIM ON WITH YOUR IDEAS AND YOUR
ON WITH YOUR IDEAS AND YOUR PROGRAMS.
PROGRAMS. BUT IT WASN’T -- THEY WEREN’T
BUT IT WASN’T -- THEY WEREN’T PERSONAL FIGHTS WITH DONALD
PERSONAL FIGHTS WITH DONALD TRUMP.
TRUMP. IT WAS MAKING THE COUNTER
IT WAS MAKING THE COUNTER ARGUMENT TO HIS POLICIES.
ARGUMENT TO HIS POLICIES. >> RIGHT.
>> RIGHT. RIGHT.
RIGHT. I THINK THAT’S REALLY THE PATH
I THINK THAT’S REALLY THE PATH FORWARD.
FORWARD. WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS LAY OUT A
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS LAY OUT A PLAN AND A VISION THAT PEOPLE
PLAN AND A VISION THAT PEOPLE CAN BELIEVE IN AND GETTING INTO
CAN BELIEVE IN AND GETTING INTO TWITTER FIGHTS WITH THE
TWITTER FIGHTS WITH THE PRESIDENT IS NOT EXACTLY I THINK
PRESIDENT IS NOT EXACTLY I THINK WHERE WE’RE GOING TO FIND
WHERE WE’RE GOING TO FIND PROGRESS AS A NATION.
PROGRESS AS A NATION. >> HEY, STEVE?
>> HEY, STEVE? THE TURNOUT, THE DEMOGRAPHICS OF
THE TURNOUT, THE DEMOGRAPHICS OF THIS DISTRICT, WHAT DOES IT
THIS DISTRICT, WHAT DOES IT PORTEND IN YOUR VIEW FOR THE
PORTEND IN YOUR VIEW FOR THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY?
DEMOCRATIC PARTY? >> IT IS INTERESTING.
>> IT IS INTERESTING. I WOULD BE CURIOUS WHAT YOU
I WOULD BE CURIOUS WHAT YOU THINK OF IT, TOO.
THINK OF IT, TOO. NEW YORK STATE DOES THESE
NEW YORK STATE DOES THESE PRIMARIES SO STRANGELY.
PRIMARIES SO STRANGELY. THERE IS A STATE WIDE PRIMARY
THERE IS A STATE WIDE PRIMARY FOR GOVERNOR AND FOR ALL THESE
FOR GOVERNOR AND FOR ALL THESE OTHER OFFICES LATER THIS SUMMER.
OTHER OFFICES LATER THIS SUMMER. THEY SEPARATED OUT THE
THEY SEPARATED OUT THE CONGRESSIONAL PRIMARIES AND
CONGRESSIONAL PRIMARIES AND FOLKS GETTING A BALLOT
FOLKS GETTING A BALLOT YESTERDAY, I’M ONE OF THESE
YESTERDAY, I’M ONE OF THESE PEOPLE, A BLANK PIECE OF PAPER
PEOPLE, A BLANK PIECE OF PAPER WITH TWO NAMES IN THE UPPER LEFT
WITH TWO NAMES IN THE UPPER LEFT CORNER AND NOTHING ELSE ON IT.
CORNER AND NOTHING ELSE ON IT. THE THINKING HAD BEEN THAT THIS
THE THINKING HAD BEEN THAT THIS WAS GOING TO BE AN ADVANTAGE FOR
WAS GOING TO BE AN ADVANTAGE FOR JOE CROWLEY, THIS WAS GOING TO
JOE CROWLEY, THIS WAS GOING TO BE AN ADVANTAGE FOR INCUMBENTS
BE AN ADVANTAGE FOR INCUMBENTS IN NEW YORK BECAUSE THERE WAS
IN NEW YORK BECAUSE THERE WAS GOING TO BE SUCH LOW TURNOUT,
GOING TO BE SUCH LOW TURNOUT, SUCH LOW INTEREST AND SUCH LOW
SUCH LOW INTEREST AND SUCH LOW ENERGY.
ENERGY. WAS THAT YOUR THINKING GOING
WAS THAT YOUR THINKING GOING INTO THIS?
INTO THIS? >> I ACTUALLY KNEW THAT IN NEW
>> I ACTUALLY KNEW THAT IN NEW YORK’S SYSTEM -- OWN SYSTEM OF
YORK’S SYSTEM -- OWN SYSTEM OF VOTER SUPPRESSION, A LOW
VOTER SUPPRESSION, A LOW TURN-OUT PRIMARY IS ACTUALLY AN
TURN-OUT PRIMARY IS ACTUALLY AN INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY FOR A
INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY FOR A GRASSROOTS ORGANIZER BECAUSE
GRASSROOTS ORGANIZER BECAUSE WHEN ONLY 3% OF YOUR ELECTORATE
WHEN ONLY 3% OF YOUR ELECTORATE TURNS OUT, YOU REALLY JUST NEED
TURNS OUT, YOU REALLY JUST NEED TO INSPIRE A COUPLE THOUSAND
TO INSPIRE A COUPLE THOUSAND PEOPLE AND IT CAN TOTALLY CHANGE
PEOPLE AND IT CAN TOTALLY CHANGE THE GAME.
THE GAME. >> ALL RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT. SO YOU ALSO WENT TO THE BORDER.
SO YOU ALSO WENT TO THE BORDER. RIGHT?
RIGHT? >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> WHEN DID YOU DO THAT?
>> WHEN DID YOU DO THAT? WHY DID YOU DO THAT?
WHY DID YOU DO THAT? WHAT DID YOU WANT TO SHOW
WHAT DID YOU WANT TO SHOW PEOPLE?
PEOPLE? >> I WENT TO THE BORDER ON
>> I WENT TO THE BORDER ON SUNDAY.
SUNDAY. SO I WAS THERE WITH SEVERAL
SO I WAS THERE WITH SEVERAL ORGANIZATIONS AND ACTIVISTS AND
ORGANIZATIONS AND ACTIVISTS AND ORGANIZERS.
ORGANIZERS. I WENT THERE BECAUSE THE MORAL
I WENT THERE BECAUSE THE MORAL CHARACTER OF OUR NATION IS ON
CHARACTER OF OUR NATION IS ON THE LINE AND IT CAN NOT WAIT.
THE LINE AND IT CAN NOT WAIT. RIGHT NOW WHAT WE ARE TALKING
RIGHT NOW WHAT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING AS EXTREME AS
ABOUT SOMETHING AS EXTREME AS THE DETENTION AND SEPARATION OF
THE DETENTION AND SEPARATION OF CHILDREN WHICH WE KNOW IS AN
CHILDREN WHICH WE KNOW IS AN INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS
INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSE, WE CANNOT AFFORD FOR A
ABUSE, WE CANNOT AFFORD FOR A CONVENIENT TIME TO RESIST THAT.
CONVENIENT TIME TO RESIST THAT. WE NEED TO SHOW AND ASSERT AND
WE NEED TO SHOW AND ASSERT AND FIGHT FOR WHAT THE AMERICA WE
FIGHT FOR WHAT THE AMERICA WE WANT TO BE.
WANT TO BE. WE NEED TO FIGHT TO MAKE THAT
WE NEED TO FIGHT TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
HAPPEN. >> JOE HAS A QUESTION FOR YOU.
>> JOE HAS A QUESTION FOR YOU. JOE, JUMP IN.
JOE, JUMP IN. >> I ACTUALLY -- QUICK QUESTION
>> I ACTUALLY -- QUICK QUESTION FOR STEVE KORNACKI.
FOR STEVE KORNACKI. BUT CERTAINLY, ALEXANDRIA, YOU
BUT CERTAINLY, ALEXANDRIA, YOU CAN ANSWER, TOO.
CAN ANSWER, TOO. HEY, STEVE, WHAT DOES IT MEAN
HEY, STEVE, WHAT DOES IT MEAN WHEN A GUY LIKE JOE CROWLEY, WHO
WHEN A GUY LIKE JOE CROWLEY, WHO IS ONE OF THE TOP LEADERS IN THE
IS ONE OF THE TOP LEADERS IN THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY, WHO’S WON YEAR
DEMOCRATIC PARTY, WHO’S WON YEAR AFTER YEAR AFTER YEAR AFTER
AFTER YEAR AFTER YEAR AFTER YEAR, IS DEFEATED IN HIS OWN
YEAR, IS DEFEATED IN HIS OWN PRIMARY AND NOBODY SEES IT
PRIMARY AND NOBODY SEES IT COMING?
COMING? IS THIS -- DID HE FALL ASLEEP AT
IS THIS -- DID HE FALL ASLEEP AT THE WHEEL?
THE WHEEL? WHAT HAPPENED?
WHAT HAPPENED? >> THERE’S AN INCREDIBLE IRONY
>> THERE’S AN INCREDIBLE IRONY WITH WHAT’S HAPPENED WITH JOE
WITH WHAT’S HAPPENED WITH JOE CROWLEY AND IT IS THIS -- HE’S
CROWLEY AND IT IS THIS -- HE’S BEEN IN CONGRESS FOR 20 YEARS.
BEEN IN CONGRESS FOR 20 YEARS. HE WAS ELECTED IN ’98.
HE WAS ELECTED IN ’98. A SORT OF THE BACK-ROOM MANEUVER
A SORT OF THE BACK-ROOM MANEUVER GOT HIM INTO THAT PLACE IN THE
GOT HIM INTO THAT PLACE IN THE FIRST PLACE.
FIRST PLACE. HE SET OUT TO CLIMB THE
HE SET OUT TO CLIMB THE DEMOCRATIC RANKS IN D.C. BUT WAS
DEMOCRATIC RANKS IN D.C. BUT WAS BLOCKED FOR YEARS BECAUSE HE HAD
BLOCKED FOR YEARS BECAUSE HE HAD A POOR RELATIONSHIP WITH NANCY
A POOR RELATIONSHIP WITH NANCY PELOSI.
PELOSI. HE SIDED WITH STENY HOYER.
HE SIDED WITH STENY HOYER. IN ’06, ’08, ’10, CROWLEY HAD
IN ’06, ’08, ’10, CROWLEY HAD SIGHTS ON MOVING UP.
SIGHTS ON MOVING UP. IN THE LAST FOUR YEARS HE MENDED
IN THE LAST FOUR YEARS HE MENDED THE RELATIONSHIP WITH PELOSI, HE
THE RELATIONSHIP WITH PELOSI, HE MOVED INTO LEADERSHIP AND WAS
MOVED INTO LEADERSHIP AND WAS POSITIONED AT THE TIME VOTING
POSITIONED AT THE TIME VOTING STARTED YESTERDAY, HE WAS THE
STARTED YESTERDAY, HE WAS THE CLOSEST THING THERE WAS TO A
CLOSEST THING THERE WAS TO A CONSENSUS PICK TO EMERGE IF
CONSENSUS PICK TO EMERGE IF NANCY PELOSI STEPPED DOWN OR WAS
NANCY PELOSI STEPPED DOWN OR WAS CHALLENGED, HE WAS THE CLOSEST
CHALLENGED, HE WAS THE CLOSEST THING TO A CONSENSUS PICK TO
THING TO A CONSENSUS PICK TO BECOME THE NEXT DEMOCRATIC
BECOME THE NEXT DEMOCRATIC LEADER, POTENTIALLY THE NEXT
LEADER, POTENTIALLY THE NEXT DEMOCRATIC SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE.
DEMOCRATIC SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE. HE FINALLY AFTER ALL THOSE YEARS
HE FINALLY AFTER ALL THOSE YEARS GOT HIS RELATIONSHIPS RIGHT IN
GOT HIS RELATIONSHIPS RIGHT IN D.C., ONLY TO TURN AROUND AND
D.C., ONLY TO TURN AROUND AND FIND OUT THAT THE DISTRICT HE
FIND OUT THAT THE DISTRICT HE HAD BEEN ELECTED TO 20 YEARS
HAD BEEN ELECTED TO 20 YEARS AGO, WHERE HE WAS, BY THE WAY,
AGO, WHERE HE WAS, BY THE WAY, THE PARTY BOSS -- TALKING THE
THE PARTY BOSS -- TALKING THE QUEENS COUNTY CHAIRMAN HERE.
QUEENS COUNTY CHAIRMAN HERE. AGAIN, IT WAS A BACK-ROOM
AGAIN, IT WAS A BACK-ROOM MANEUVER THAT GOT HIM IN THERE
MANEUVER THAT GOT HIM IN THERE IN ’98 IN THE FIRST PLACE,
IN ’98 IN THE FIRST PLACE, CIRCUMSTANCES CHANGED BACK HOME.
CIRCUMSTANCES CHANGED BACK HOME. HE FINALLY GOT THINGS RIGHT IN
HE FINALLY GOT THINGS RIGHT IN D.C., ONLY TO WATCH THEM ALL GO
D.C., ONLY TO WATCH THEM ALL GO WRONG BACK HOME.
WRONG BACK HOME. >> I WANT TO POINT OUT, MIKA,
>> I WANT TO POINT OUT, MIKA, YOU MENTIONED ALEXANDRIA WENT TO
YOU MENTIONED ALEXANDRIA WENT TO THE BORDER, SHE’S BEEN ON THIS
THE BORDER, SHE’S BEEN ON THIS ISSUE LONG BEFORE IT WAS IN THE
ISSUE LONG BEFORE IT WAS IN THE NEWS, CALLING FOR THE ABOLITION
NEWS, CALLING FOR THE ABOLITION OF I.C.E.
OF I.C.E. NOT JUST WHILE IT WAS IN
NOT JUST WHILE IT WAS IN NATIONAL NEWS.
NATIONAL NEWS. A COUPLE OTHER ITEMS ON YOUR
A COUPLE OTHER ITEMS ON YOUR POLICY AGENDA THAT YOU MADE VERY
POLICY AGENDA THAT YOU MADE VERY CLEAR THROUGHOUT -- MEDICARE FOR
CLEAR THROUGHOUT -- MEDICARE FOR ALL.
ALL. FEDERAL JOBS GUARANTEE.
FEDERAL JOBS GUARANTEE. AND TUITION-FREE PUBLIC
AND TUITION-FREE PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES AND TRADE SCHOOLS.
UNIVERSITIES AND TRADE SCHOOLS. THOSE LOOK TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
THOSE LOOK TO A LOT OF PEOPLE LIKE PROMISES OF GIFTS UNDER THE
LIKE PROMISES OF GIFTS UNDER THE TREE.
TREE. BUT THEY WONDER HOW THEY’LL BE
BUT THEY WONDER HOW THEY’LL BE PAID FOR.
PAID FOR. NOW YOU’RE IN A POSITION TO
NOW YOU’RE IN A POSITION TO CARRY THESE OUT.
CARRY THESE OUT. HOW AT A TIME WHEN THE CBO SAYS
HOW AT A TIME WHEN THE CBO SAYS OUR DEBTS AND DEFICITS ARE
OUR DEBTS AND DEFICITS ARE SPLOET ING
SPLOET ING EXPLODING, ARE GOING TO CRIPPLE
EXPLODING, ARE GOING TO CRIPPLE US, HOW DO YOU PAY FOR THAT?
US, HOW DO YOU PAY FOR THAT? >> THAT’S A GREAT QUESTION.
>> THAT’S A GREAT QUESTION. FIRST I THINK WE NEED TO LOOK AT
FIRST I THINK WE NEED TO LOOK AT THE DAMAGING LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
THE DAMAGING LEGISLATIVE HISTORY OF WHAT WE’VE DONE WITH OUR
OF WHAT WE’VE DONE WITH OUR TAXES.
TAXES. NOT ONLY DID WE HAVE A $400
NOT ONLY DID WE HAVE A $400 BILLION GOP TAX CUT THAT COULD
BILLION GOP TAX CUT THAT COULD TOO LULLY FORGIVEN EVERY SINGLE
TOO LULLY FORGIVEN EVERY SINGLE STUDENT LOAN IN AMERICA.
STUDENT LOAN IN AMERICA. WE SPENT THAT MONEY IN DECEMBER
WE SPENT THAT MONEY IN DECEMBER AND WE SPENT IT ON TAX CUTS FOR
AND WE SPENT IT ON TAX CUTS FOR THE CORPORATIONS AND THE VERY
THE CORPORATIONS AND THE VERY RICH.
RICH. BUT IT MEANS REVIEWING THE BUSH
BUT IT MEANS REVIEWING THE BUSH TAX CUTS.
TAX CUTS. IT MEANS MAKING SURE THAT ALSO
IT MEANS MAKING SURE THAT ALSO WE UNDERSTAND THE POWER OF THE
WE UNDERSTAND THE POWER OF THE PURSE THAT CONGRESS HAS THAT
PURSE THAT CONGRESS HAS THAT WHEN THE UNITED STATES WAS IN
WHEN THE UNITED STATES WAS IN THE GREAT DEPRESSION, THAT IS
THE GREAT DEPRESSION, THAT IS WHEN WE PURSUED THE NEW DEAL.
WHEN WE PURSUED THE NEW DEAL. IT WAS WHEN PEOPLE PRECISELY
IT WAS WHEN PEOPLE PRECISELY SAID WE HAVE THE LEAST AMOUNT OF
SAID WE HAVE THE LEAST AMOUNT OF ABILITY TO DO THIS THAT WE
ABILITY TO DO THIS THAT WE ACTUALLY COMMITTED TO AN
ACTUALLY COMMITTED TO AN ECONOMICALLY AMBITIOUS AGENDA
ECONOMICALLY AMBITIOUS AGENDA THAT TRANSFORMED THE FUTURE AND
THAT TRANSFORMED THE FUTURE AND THE COURSE OF THIS NATION.
THE COURSE OF THIS NATION. I THINK THAT IT IS ABSOLUTELY
I THINK THAT IT IS ABSOLUTELY POSSIBLE.
POSSIBLE. BUT WHAT IT TAKES IS THE
BUT WHAT IT TAKES IS THE POLITICAL COURAGE TO DO IT.
POLITICAL COURAGE TO DO IT. >> TO RAISE TAXES, TO ROLL BACK
>> TO RAISE TAXES, TO ROLL BACK THE TAX CUTS.
THE TAX CUTS. >> NOT ONLY THAT, BUT ALSO
>> NOT ONLY THAT, BUT ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THE FEDERAL
UNDERSTAND THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES HAVE THE ABILITY
GOVERNMENT DOES HAVE THE ABILITY IN THE SIMILAR WAY THAT WE HAD
IN THE SIMILAR WAY THAT WE HAD IN THE NEW DEAL TO SPEARHEAD
IN THE NEW DEAL TO SPEARHEAD SOME OF THIS AGENDA AND SOME OF
SOME OF THIS AGENDA AND SOME OF THAT FINANCING, AS WELL.
THAT FINANCING, AS WELL. >> MIKE BARNICLE?
>> MIKE BARNICLE? >> WHERE DOES THIS COME FROM?
>> WHERE DOES THIS COME FROM? WHERE DOES ALL THIS COME FROM?
WHERE DOES ALL THIS COME FROM? HOW DID YOU GET SO INTERESTED,
HOW DID YOU GET SO INTERESTED, SO INVOLVED, SO INTENSE ON ALL
SO INVOLVED, SO INTENSE ON ALL OF THESE ISSUES THAT THREATEN SO
OF THESE ISSUES THAT THREATEN SO MANY PEOPLE’S LIVES, THAT AFFECT
MANY PEOPLE’S LIVES, THAT AFFECT SO MANY PEOPLE’S LIVES?
SO MANY PEOPLE’S LIVES? WHERE DID IT COME FROM IN YOU?
WHERE DID IT COME FROM IN YOU? >> WELL, YEARS AGO I HAD THE
>> WELL, YEARS AGO I HAD THE HONOR OF WORKING FOR THE LATE
HONOR OF WORKING FOR THE LATE SENATOR KENNEDY, WHICH IS WHEN I
SENATOR KENNEDY, WHICH IS WHEN I REALLY KIND OF FELL IN LOVE WITH
REALLY KIND OF FELL IN LOVE WITH COMMUNITY WORK.
COMMUNITY WORK. BUT IT’S REALLY MY STORY AND MY
BUT IT’S REALLY MY STORY AND MY BACKGROUND.
BACKGROUND. MY FATHER PASSED AWAY WHEN I WAS
MY FATHER PASSED AWAY WHEN I WAS A TEENAGER.
A TEENAGER. MY MOTHER CLEANED HOMES AND
MY MOTHER CLEANED HOMES AND DROVE SCHOOL BUSES.
DROVE SCHOOL BUSES. AND WHEN MY FAMILY WAS ON THE
AND WHEN MY FAMILY WAS ON THE BRINK OF FORECLOSURE IN 2008, MY
BRINK OF FORECLOSURE IN 2008, MY FATHER PASSED AWAY DURING THE
FATHER PASSED AWAY DURING THE FINANCIAL CRISIS.
FINANCIAL CRISIS. THAT’S WHY I STARTED WAITRESSING
THAT’S WHY I STARTED WAITRESSING AND BARTENDING SO THAT SHE COULD
AND BARTENDING SO THAT SHE COULD KEEP HER HOME.
KEEP HER HOME. SO I UNDERSTAND THE PAIN OF
SO I UNDERSTAND THE PAIN OF WORKING CLASS AMERICANS BECAUSE
WORKING CLASS AMERICANS BECAUSE I HAVE EXPERIENCED THE PAIN AND
I HAVE EXPERIENCED THE PAIN AND I HAVE EXPERIENCED THE URGENCY
I HAVE EXPERIENCED THE URGENCY OF THIS ECONOMIC MOMENT.
OF THIS ECONOMIC MOMENT. AND THAT IS WHY I -- I BRING
AND THAT IS WHY I -- I BRING THAT URGENCY TO THIS FIGHT,
THAT URGENCY TO THIS FIGHT, BECAUSE IT IS WHAT WE NEED AS A
BECAUSE IT IS WHAT WE NEED AS A NATION, IT IS WHAT WORKING
NATION, IT IS WHAT WORKING FAMILIES NEED AS A NATION.
FAMILIES NEED AS A NATION. >> HOW OLD ARE YOU?
>> HOW OLD ARE YOU? >> I’M 28 YEARS OLD.
>> I’M 28 YEARS OLD. >> AND HOW DO YOU GET FROM THAT
>> AND HOW DO YOU GET FROM THAT STORY TO THINKING I’M GOING TO
STORY TO THINKING I’M GOING TO RUN AND I THINK I CAN WIN?
RUN AND I THINK I CAN WIN? I WANT TO KNOW WHERE THAT COMES
I WANT TO KNOW WHERE THAT COMES FROM INSIDE YOU, ESPECIALLY FOR
FROM INSIDE YOU, ESPECIALLY FOR WOMEN WHO STRUGGLE TO KNOW THEIR
WOMEN WHO STRUGGLE TO KNOW THEIR VALUE.
VALUE. >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. I THINK 2016 WAS AN AMAZING YEAR
I THINK 2016 WAS AN AMAZING YEAR FOR -- I MEAN, IT WASN’T AN
FOR -- I MEAN, IT WASN’T AN AMAZING YEAR NATIONALLY BUT IT
AMAZING YEAR NATIONALLY BUT IT WAS A YEAR OF AWAKENING FOR A
WAS A YEAR OF AWAKENING FOR A LOT OF INDIVIDUALS.
LOT OF INDIVIDUALS. I FOUND MYSELF AT THE END OF
I FOUND MYSELF AT THE END OF 2016 AT STANDING ROCK.
2016 AT STANDING ROCK. I FOUND MYSELF IN FLINT,
I FOUND MYSELF IN FLINT, MICHIGAN.
MICHIGAN. I JUST FELT LIKE AT THIS POINT
I JUST FELT LIKE AT THIS POINT WE HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE. >> THAT’S RIGHT.
>> THAT’S RIGHT. >> WE HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE!
>> WE HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE! AND EVEN IN A RACE THAT JUST
AND EVEN IN A RACE THAT JUST SEEMED IMPOSSIBLE, AS IT WAS
SEEMED IMPOSSIBLE, AS IT WAS EVEN THREE MONTHS AGO, EVEN ON
EVEN THREE MONTHS AGO, EVEN ON LONG ODDS, THAT DOESN’T MEAN WE
LONG ODDS, THAT DOESN’T MEAN WE SHOULDN’T TRY.
SHOULDN’T TRY. >> THAT’S THE BOTTOM LINE.
>> THAT’S THE BOTTOM LINE. >> WHAT’S YOUR ADVICE NOW?
>> WHAT’S YOUR ADVICE NOW? BECAUSE EVERYONE IN THE
BECAUSE EVERYONE IN THE POLITICAL WORLD IS GOING TO GO
POLITICAL WORLD IS GOING TO GO BACK NOW AND LOOK AT YOUR
BACK NOW AND LOOK AT YOUR CAMPAIGN AND LOOK WHAT YOU DID
CAMPAIGN AND LOOK WHAT YOU DID OVER THE LAST SEVERAL MONTHS AND
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL MONTHS AND SAY, WHAT CAN WE LEARN FROM IT?
SAY, WHAT CAN WE LEARN FROM IT? HOW SHOULD WE MODEL OUR
HOW SHOULD WE MODEL OUR CAMPAIGNS?
CAMPAIGNS? HOW CAN WE TAKE BACK THE HOUSE
HOW CAN WE TAKE BACK THE HOUSE THIS FALL?
THIS FALL? HOW CAN WE TAKE BACK THE WHITE
HOW CAN WE TAKE BACK THE WHITE HOUSE?
HOUSE? A COUPLE OF YEARS?
A COUPLE OF YEARS? WHAT DO YOU SAY TO PEOPLE AS
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO PEOPLE AS THEY WATCH YOUR CAMPAIGN?
THEY WATCH YOUR CAMPAIGN? BECAUSE YOU STAYED ON YOUR
BECAUSE YOU STAYED ON YOUR MESSAGE THE WHOLE TIME.
MESSAGE THE WHOLE TIME. I THINK IT WAS REFLECTED LAST
I THINK IT WAS REFLECTED LAST NIGHT WHEN JOE CROWLEY CONCEDED
NIGHT WHEN JOE CROWLEY CONCEDED AT HIS EVENT HE STARTED BY
AT HIS EVENT HE STARTED BY DEDICATING A SONG TO YOU AND
DEDICATING A SONG TO YOU AND CONGRATULATING YOU, THAT’S SORT
CONGRATULATING YOU, THAT’S SORT OF THE TENOR OF THE CAMPAIGN WAS
OF THE TENOR OF THE CAMPAIGN WAS ABOUT A MESSAGE AND NOT ABOUT
ABOUT A MESSAGE AND NOT ABOUT PERSONAL FIGHTS.
PERSONAL FIGHTS. >> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY. I THINK IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE
I THINK IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE HAVE TO STICK TO THE MESSAGE.
HAVE TO STICK TO THE MESSAGE. WHAT ARE WE PROPOSING TO THE
WHAT ARE WE PROPOSING TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE?
AMERICAN PEOPLE? NOT WHAT ARE WE FIGHTING
NOT WHAT ARE WE FIGHTING AGAINST.
AGAINST. WE UNDERSTAND THAT WE’RE UNDER
WE UNDERSTAND THAT WE’RE UNDER AN AENNTAGONISTIC ADMINISTRATION
AN AENNTAGONISTIC ADMINISTRATION BUT WHAT IS GOING TO EARN AND
BUT WHAT IS GOING TO EARN AND DESERVE THE SUPPORT OF WORKING
DESERVE THE SUPPORT OF WORKING CLASS AMERICANS?
CLASS AMERICANS? AND WE NEED TO BE EXPLICIT IN
AND WE NEED TO BE EXPLICIT IN THAT VISION AND THAT
THAT VISION AND THAT LEGISLATION, NOT JUST "BETTER."
LEGISLATION, NOT JUST "BETTER." BUT WHAT EXACTLY IS OUR PLAN?
BUT WHAT EXACTLY IS OUR PLAN? AND THAT WHEN WE DO THAT,
AND THAT WHEN WE DO THAT, WORKING CLASS AMERICANS, WHEN
WORKING CLASS AMERICANS, WHEN WE’RE BOLD ABOUT IT, WHEN WE SAY
WE’RE BOLD ABOUT IT, WHEN WE SAY WE STAND UP FOR IMMIGRANTS, WHEN
WE STAND UP FOR IMMIGRANTS, WHEN WE STAND UP FOR THE LGBTQ
WE STAND UP FOR THE LGBTQ COMMUNITY, WE BELIEVE THAT EVERY
COMMUNITY, WE BELIEVE THAT EVERY WORKING CLASS AMERICAN DESERVES
WORKING CLASS AMERICAN DESERVES THE OPPORTUNITY TO CHANGE THEIR
THE OPPORTUNITY TO CHANGE THEIR ECONOMIC DESTINY AND THEIR
ECONOMIC DESTINY AND THEIR CHILDREN’S FUTURE, THAT’S THE
CHILDREN’S FUTURE, THAT’S THE MESSAGE THAT WE NEED TO BRING
MESSAGE THAT WE NEED TO BRING INTO THE MID-TERMS.
INTO THE MID-TERMS. >> JOE, WHAT’S YOUR BIG
>> JOE, WHAT’S YOUR BIG TAKE-AWAY LOOKING AT THIS RACE?
TAKE-AWAY LOOKING AT THIS RACE? >> WELL, THE BIG TAKE-AWAY IS
>> WELL, THE BIG TAKE-AWAY IS THAT WE TALKED ABOUT IT IN 2016.
THAT WE TALKED ABOUT IT IN 2016. LOOK AT THE PEOPLE WHO DID
LOOK AT THE PEOPLE WHO DID REALLY WELL.
REALLY WELL. DONALD TRUMP ON THE REPUBLICAN
DONALD TRUMP ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE, BERNIE SANDERS ON THE
SIDE, BERNIE SANDERS ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE.
DEMOCRATIC SIDE. THE ANTITHESIS OF EACH OTHER.
THE ANTITHESIS OF EACH OTHER. BUT EACH HAD A MESSAGE.
BUT EACH HAD A MESSAGE. EACH HAD A BOLD MESSAGE.
EACH HAD A BOLD MESSAGE. PEOPLE ON THE RIGHT DIDN’T LIKE
PEOPLE ON THE RIGHT DIDN’T LIKE BERNIE’S.
BERNIE’S. A LOT OF US DIDN’T LIKE DONALD
A LOT OF US DIDN’T LIKE DONALD TRUMP’S.
TRUMP’S. BUT THAT SAID, THERE IS A BOLD
BUT THAT SAID, THERE IS A BOLD MESSAGE.
MESSAGE. THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT THE
THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN WASHINGTON,
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN WASHINGTON, D.C. HAS, THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT
D.C. HAS, THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT HILLARY CLINTON HAD.
HILLARY CLINTON HAD. AND THEN, MOST IMPORTANTLY, ONCE
AND THEN, MOST IMPORTANTLY, ONCE YOU HAVE THAT MESSAGE, IT IS THE
YOU HAVE THAT MESSAGE, IT IS THE FUNDAMENTALS.
FUNDAMENTALS. I ALWAYS CALLED IT THE BLOCKING
I ALWAYS CALLED IT THE BLOCKING AND TACKLING.
AND TACKLING. KNOCKING ON DOORS.
KNOCKING ON DOORS. PUTTING YARD SIGNS OUT THERE.
PUTTING YARD SIGNS OUT THERE. GETTING ON THE PHONES.
GETTING ON THE PHONES. GETTING PEOPLE OUT TO VOTE,
GETTING PEOPLE OUT TO VOTE, HAVING PHONE BANKS, HAVING
HAVING PHONE BANKS, HAVING PEOPLE IN CHURCHES AND
PEOPLE IN CHURCHES AND SYNAGOGUES, HAVING PEOPLE ALL
SYNAGOGUES, HAVING PEOPLE ALL OVER YOUR DISTRICT DOING
OVER YOUR DISTRICT DOING EVERYTHING THEY COULD, DAY IN
EVERYTHING THEY COULD, DAY IN AND DAY OUT.
AND DAY OUT. AND YOU WORKED HARDER.
AND YOU WORKED HARDER. YOU KNOW, WHEN PEOPLE ALWAYS
YOU KNOW, WHEN PEOPLE ALWAYS CAME TO ME AND SAID WHAT’S THE
CAME TO ME AND SAID WHAT’S THE SECRET OF WINNING?
SECRET OF WINNING? HOW DID YOU DO THIS?
HOW DID YOU DO THIS? NOBODY EXPECTED YOU TO WIN.
NOBODY EXPECTED YOU TO WIN. >> I SAID IT IS VERY SIMPLE.
>> I SAID IT IS VERY SIMPLE. I GET UP EARLIER THAN EVERYBODY
I GET UP EARLIER THAN EVERYBODY ELSE, YOU GO TO BED LATER THAN
ELSE, YOU GO TO BED LATER THAN EVERYBODY ELSE AND YOU WORK
EVERYBODY ELSE AND YOU WORK HARDER IN BETWEEN THOSE TWO
HARDER IN BETWEEN THOSE TWO POINTS.
POINTS. ALL YOU HAVE TO DO ARE THOSE
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO ARE THOSE THREE THINGS AND YOU’VE GOT A
THREE THINGS AND YOU’VE GOT A SHOT OF WINNING, TOO.
SHOT OF WINNING, TOO. SOUNDS LIKE THAT’S EXACTLY WHAT
SOUNDS LIKE THAT’S EXACTLY WHAT ALEXANDRIA DID.
ALEXANDRIA DID. AND EVEN MORE IMPORTANTLY THAN
AND EVEN MORE IMPORTANTLY THAN THAT, SHE HAS A MESSAGE THAT THE
THAT, SHE HAS A MESSAGE THAT THE DEMOCRATS HAVE NOT HAD.
DEMOCRATS HAVE NOT HAD. >> AND THAT MESSAGE, BY THE WAY,
>> AND THAT MESSAGE, BY THE WAY, DID NOT TAKE HER THREE MINUTES
DID NOT TAKE HER THREE MINUTES TO SPEW OUT DRONING ON AND ON
TO SPEW OUT DRONING ON AND ON AND ON.
AND ON. I WILL TELL YOU, IN THE TWO
I WILL TELL YOU, IN THE TWO YEARS RUNNING UP TO HILLARY
YEARS RUNNING UP TO HILLARY CLINTON’S CAMPAIGN AND ELECTION
CLINTON’S CAMPAIGN AND ELECTION NIGHT, I ASKED EVERY DEMOCRAT
NIGHT, I ASKED EVERY DEMOCRAT THAT CAME ON THIS SET, I ASKED
THAT CAME ON THIS SET, I ASKED HILLARY CLINTON, I ASKED ALL OF
HILLARY CLINTON, I ASKED ALL OF HILLARY CLINTON’S SUPPORTERS,
HILLARY CLINTON’S SUPPORTERS, BECAUSE SHE WAS SO UNAVAILABLE,
BECAUSE SHE WAS SO UNAVAILABLE, WHAT’S THE MESSAGE?
WHAT’S THE MESSAGE? WHAT’S THE MESSAGE?
WHAT’S THE MESSAGE? AND THE ANSWER WAS ALWAYS TWO TO
AND THE ANSWER WAS ALWAYS TWO TO THREE MINUTES LONG KIND OF
THREE MINUTES LONG KIND OF PLACATING, KIND OF IN THE MIDDLE
PLACATING, KIND OF IN THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE, NOTHING MINUTES LONG
OF NOWHERE, NOTHING MINUTES LONG IN THE MIDDLE OF NOTHING.
IN THE MIDDLE OF NOTHING. ULTIMATELY.
ULTIMATELY. THIS VERY YOUNG CANDIDATE HAS A
THIS VERY YOUNG CANDIDATE HAS A CLEAR, CONCISE MESSAGE.
CLEAR, CONCISE MESSAGE. IT TOOK HER LESS THAN 30 SECONDS
IT TOOK HER LESS THAN 30 SECONDS TO SAY IT BECAUSE SHE KNOW
TO SAY IT BECAUSE SHE KNOW EXACTLY WHAT IT IS.
EXACTLY WHAT IT IS. IT IS WHO SHE IS.
IT IS WHO SHE IS. IT’S WHERE SHE CAME FROM.
IT’S WHERE SHE CAME FROM. AND IT’S WHAT SHE WANTS TO DO.
AND IT’S WHAT SHE WANTS TO DO. SO, I WANT EVERYONE TO TAKE A
SO, I WANT EVERYONE TO TAKE A LOOK AT THIS INTERVIEW, TAKE A
LOOK AT THIS INTERVIEW, TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT HER MESSAGE IS.
LOOK AT WHAT HER MESSAGE IS. DON’T STEAL HER MESSAGE, FIND
DON’T STEAL HER MESSAGE, FIND YOUR OWN, DEMOCRATS, OKAY?
YOUR OWN, DEMOCRATS, OKAY? AND BELIEVE IN IT.
AND BELIEVE IN IT. OUR PARTY AND WHAT OUR MESSAGE
OUR PARTY AND WHAT OUR MESSAGE IS, IF YOU FOCUS ON TRUMP WHICH
IS, IF YOU FOCUS ON TRUMP WHICH I DON’T THINK YOU EVEN MENTIONED
I DON’T THINK YOU EVEN MENTIONED TODAY.
TODAY. >> NO.
>> NO. >> AND YET, AT THIS POINT, AN
>> AND YET, AT THIS POINT, AN ENTIRE DISTRICT IS SWEPT UP WITH
ENTIRE DISTRICT IS SWEPT UP WITH YOU.
YOU. THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. >> STEVE KORNACKI, THANK YOU.
>> STEVE KORNACKI, THANK YOU. THE RED AND THE BLUE THE 1990s
THE RED AND THE BLUE THE 1990s AND THE BIRTH OF POLITICAL
AND THE BIRTH OF POLITICAL TRIBALISM IN THE COMING WEEKS.
TRIBALISM IN THE COMING WEEKS. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ, THANK
ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU VERY MUCH. >>> UP NEXT FROM ONE BAD ASS